---
title:  "Machine Learning Starter Resources"
date:   2019-06-25 01:04:20 -0500
layout: post
permalink: /start
image:
  path: "http://zna.do/assets/equisat/images/logo.png"
---

A lot of people ask me for how to get started with machine learning/artificial intelligence, so I wrote down what I usually say so they can go back and read it!

<style>
#site-title {
  color: #fafafa;
}
#hero-image {
  background-image: url("/assets/start/images/thesis_zacknet.png");
}
.section-title {
  font-size: 16px;
}
</style>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/assets/css/input.css">

<p>Many people have spent many hours writing down and illustrating how to get started with machine learning, so this will mostly be links to them. Also ML/AI (machine learning/artificial intelligence) are often used interchangeably, although I feel that AI is usually the hyped up selling version of saying <a href="https://xkcd.com/1838/" target="_blank">what it is</a>.</p>

<b class="section-title">Start</b>
<b>TODO</b>
<p>Most ML material nowadays is in Python (even if it calls out to C++ or other more performant code) so being comfortable with Python code is a must.</p>
<p>One excellent resource to get started with machine learning is the Google ML crash course: <a href="https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/crash-course" target="_blank">developers.google.com/machine-learning/crash-course</a>. This </p>
<p><a href="http://neuralnetworksanddeeplearning.com" target="_blank">neuralnetworksanddeeplearning.com</a></p>

<b class="section-title">Going further</b>
<b>TODO</b>
<p><a href="https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/tensorflow-without-a-phd" target="_blank">github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/tensorflow-without-a-phd</a></p>
<p><a href="https://distill.pub/" target="_blank">distill.pub</a></p>
maybe? colah karpathy
stanford classes

<b class="section-title">Going even further</b>
<b>TODO stanford cs classes?</b>
<p><a href="https://www.deeplearningbook.org" target="_blank">deeplearningbook.org</a></p>
<p>generative models (check if MLCC or GCP covers)</p>

<b class="section-title">Social media</b>
<p>Something that has had a noticeably positive effect on my ML career has been making a professional ML Twitter account. The ML community is quite active on Twitter, and they often post papers/projects/ideas that they are working on or find interesting. It's a great format for getting a pulse of the field, although I do have some words of caution: it is quite easy to get FOMO or feel overwhelmed because the field moves so fast, but you just have to remember that people only post when their work is ready for the public eye. You don't see the other 99.9% of the effort that went into making the finished product, and rarely do people publish negative results (although I believe this should be fixed!) As a shameless plug <b><a href="https://twitter.com/zacharynado" target="_blank">here is my ML Twitter account</a></b>, I recommend going through the people I follow and following those whose feeds you find interesting.</p>

<b class="section-title">ArXiv</b>
<b>TODO add good examples for each paper section</b>
<p>Another powerful resource you'll soon come across is arXiv (pronounced archive.) ArXiv is a pre-print server, which means it's a website that anyone can post a PDF to to share with the community. Often times you'll see papers that are published in conferences here, and many that are not; keep in mind that while most of the time people upload with care, the results in papers that have not been published in conferences may not have been peer reviewed to the same degree as others.</p>

<p>When reading machine learning papers, they often follow a common format. There are no rules around this and definitely not all papers adhere to this format, but many do:</p>
<ol>
<li><b>Introduction</b>: a general framing of the problem/methods discussed in the paper. Usually outlines the importance of the work by giving real world examples of problems it solves. Often times explicitly lists the contributions of the paper.</li>
<li><b>Background/Related Works</b>: an overview of related previous work done in the area of the paper. Very useful if you are looking to get into a subfield and need more information to read!</li>
<li><b>Methods</b>: details about the contributions of the work, sometimes split into multiple sections.</li>
<li><b>Experiments/Results</b>: details about the results of the paper, sometimes split into multiple sections.</li>
<li><b>Discussion</b>: a recap of the significance of the methods and results of the work. Sometimes authors will list what they believe are promising directions of future work, so if you are looking for ideas to work on (or looking for how to think of ideas to work on) this can be useful.</li>
<li><b>Appendix</b>: extra information/figures that didn't fit into the previous sections within a reasonable (sometimes conference enforced) page limit. If you are looking to reproduce a paper this is often the place the authors include the fine details of their experiment setups. An excellent example of appendices is <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.11096" target="_blank">the BigGAN paper</a>, I especially like their negative results appendix where they discuss the things they tried that did not work. Including these experiments is immensely useful for researchers looking to replicate and expand on your work!</li>
</ol>
<p>An example of this is <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.02530" target="_blank">our recent paper on uncertainty calibration in deep learning</a>; take a look at the PDF and you'll see all the sections I mention!</p>

<b class="section-title">Trying it yourself</b>
<p>One pain-free way to start programming with ML is to use Google Colab, which is a Python notebook where the code runs on Google Cloud so you don't have to install packages/drivers yourself. <b>You can even get a free GPU or TPU with Colab!</b> TPUs are Google's new hardware built specifically for speeding up machine learning. You can run on a GPU by selecting a GPU runtime by going to "Runtime" < "Change runtime type", and <a href="https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/colabs" target="_blank">here are some Colab TPU examples</a>.</p>

<b class="section-title">Interesting applications</b>
<p>If the previous work didn't pique your interest then check out some of these recent applications of ML I enjoy:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>TODO</b>: TODO.</li>
</ul>
